all right so uh
let's get this going
send me my notification you bum
okay so after getting humbled yesterday
I realized that my cast is sort of
collapsing on the weight of itself so
what we need to do
is we'll probably need to implement more
chain rules
um
but what um the actual goal is
is to implement uh
simplification because and
simplification in pretty printing
okay so the first things to do are
simplification
and pretty printing
foreign
okay
what happens when
foreign
I feel like I want a way
thank you
oh
what's wrong with the constant folding
foreign
mm-hmm
I hate the randomness
that that needs to be done okay
now come up with an example that
does not simplify
to a fixed point
foreign
I like the idea that there's periodic
orbits in
a
discrete dynamical system
where
the state's business Expressions it's a
beautiful thought
but no way I feel like
hey what's up bro sorry I missed your
thing I'm building a computer algebra
system for
um the simulation of differential
algebraic equations so there are these
things called differential algebraic
equations
and yeah this is a good one
uh let's see
is that the one from Wikipedia
yeah here so in this case you have four
differential equations and then this one
algebraic constraint and if you
differentiate this second equation or
this last equation twice substitute uh
in for
Lambda
which is a differential term
then
you can end up reducing it into a form
of this
so right now what we're doing now is
we're implementing computer algebra
simplification rules so things like if
you have in the cast one times zero it
just replaced with zero and so now we're
debugging that we're adding more cases
foreign
has a fixed point but
um
not reach
one call to simplify
right so in computer algebra there's
this idea of
you need to
oh you guys are fools
foreign
yeah my name is Anand what's up man
I'm half Indian I'm not full Indian
okay
um
isn't there a full simplifier
dude Warframe is just the best [__]
language it's crazy
oh
foreign
Plus
B plus zero
plus C plus
okay
hmm
I think we derive eek
nice
okay so now what we want to do
is we want to
I'm going to go back to our little rust
Rebel
uh
we don't need any of that we don't need
any of that
I need that
I just need this
okay so now
um s.x8
we want to call full simplify
this
I think we need more rules
okay so now what we want to do is we're
going to add pretty printing
oh wait hold on I should change the
title of the stream because guys it's my
[__] birthday
cool
okay so now that we've implemented that
um actually only get to minus 20 DB the
problem is when I play basketball it
clips
but maybe this is okay
hello
all right minus 15 is a little better
all right
okay cool
um
now I want to add a
x.2 pretty string
function that uses
uh color
and
um
Prince constants
the prince Constance variables and
parameters
different
also it should
um render I knobs
their typical form and math
oh I think it did it nice
let's see add color
s
[Music]
what
let's remove all the other print lines
and in pants let's also remove
all of our print lines
should we leave in tukadur let's leave
into condor
tucaders so [__] pivotal to this
[Music]
no we must be printing it out an
augmenting path too
too
good and then somewhere we're printing
at the bipartite graph too
oh
nice
it's pretty nice actually
is that fixed Point bro I don't think
that's a fixed point
um
X of t
plus y of t
minus L squared t t
2.
wait what
oh wait yeah
I messed it up are you squared
uh
dude it's so hard to copy this
um
is it the case that
factoring rules are
factoring rules are hard man
what is the answer
D of
x squared plus y squared
minus L squared
of
t two
is equal to
two x Prime
squared
plus 2y Prime squared plus
two x x double Prime
plus 2 y y double Prime
okay so what does that mean
can we oh shoot I think that
um
uh whatever I don't really care
so what we have right now is
X double Prime X Plus
X Prime Times X Prime
plus X
okay so we need a factor we need to
factor also
um
two string pretty
oh hold on
let's do this
I'll just copy it all
um can you change to string
pretty
keep the colors
but render it as closely to evaluate of
people
evaluable
uh Wolfram code as possible
assume that bars are
functions of
r t
so if you see a bar
X
eight needs to be rendered
X of T all derivative
are complicitly
Alters
it's just gonna make debugging so much
easier
does that work I don't think that's
right
but we'll change that
I'm pretty sure this needs to be
huh
oh wait really
let's see does this just work
okay
does that work I feel like that's
probably broken minus X
also all of these comments
Okay cool so now we we generate wolf
from code
it's pretty sweet hold on I get a phone
call
you've reached Hannah Rogers
okay so we need to
yes what do we have we have X double
Prime
this is harder to read for sure but
we get the benefit that we can check
a lot more stuff
Animal Friend Is there a way to see
which simplification rules were apply
I feel like there's Trace though
Trace
hmm
do
x equals full simplify
um
what is three
it was stack
damn that's wild
foreign
today
a string
okay
ah
yeah
okay
it's actually amazing how good Wolfram
is
just such a good system
if I delete this is that yeah it can't
be colored
damn
that's so cool
that it can just solve equations
how does that work
solve equations in a geometric region
that's [__] crazy man
that is so cool
do they have grobner basis calculation
they must have it somewhere
grobner basis built in easy man
maybe we'll work through some of that
book
because it does seem like I need
more Machinery in the computer algebra
system to be able to
to like get the equations all locked
locked and loaded
the picture uh it's such a funny picture
that you posted to your story oh I like
the 24.
mm-hmm
I love that one
you're so happy
yeah
okay
so wait what was the what was the
expression that I have
X double Prime Times x x Prime Times X
Plus
X
Prime Times X Prime
okay so that you can factor out
oh okay I see
I see how these got applied x times
X double Prime
yeah the associativity invariant or
commutativity and variant
operation of mole
okay then it's plus y double Prime y or
Y double Prime y plus y Prime y prime
plus y Prime y prime plus y y double
Prime
okay
so the things to do are
the problem is this is matched
and this is matched
hmm
huh oh man the reception is so bad
okay
okay bye can you book your flight home I
will
today
yeah I'll book it today
all right love you bye-bye
foreign
okay
um
hmm
foreign
the problem is that
if you have
well we have
foreign
did we
mm-hmm
so we could just sort args Okay so
um where's my
um
after
[Music]
hmm
okay fine um
let's add some
instead of doing a pressure we're just
gonna do
um
[Music]
okay
so now
I should be able to do mole x dot clone
x.com
cool
I really wish I didn't have to clone but
maybe in cast three I'll figure it I'll
figure out how to do it
okay so um
foreign
is such a good language man
hmm
power is so annoying
we could do that
okay
but we do want pow
uh
God it's so much
okay now
let x equal mole
uh
okay hold on
okay wait now
you know what what
are back equal to back of
xttx
.com and x t x t dot Club
which came first
hmm we could do that
we could sort all arguments of Bin op
before we
okay that's an option
so then what we'd have is
if we did that then I think that our
um
let's see if we have an ad
where's our bin op
okay
we need a simpler way to do this like
specifying rules in this big massive
function is going to get because the
order of simplification obviously
matters
foreign
[Music]
equal
then
do the expected thing
I.E
x x minus X goes to zero x divided by X
what is that what does that do actually
foreign
okay so wait what was the sorted one the
assorted one is okay add
clone
oh nice
nice okay cool
wait what
that seems wrong
right here
we need to add pow we should add pow
we should have added pal a long time ago
but then we want to distribute we want
to do distribute it
simplification algorithms could get so
complicated I can already tell
foreign
thank you
G2 the best
such a [__] stand for the G2
dude I love Peter draws
[Music]
is he still making videos
oh I bet he's on shorts
[Music]
dude I'm gonna react to this bro
he's got the goods he's got the [__]
Goods
[Music]
Peter's got the goods
Peter with the goods guys
[Music]
oh [__]
oh
that's the G2 I know and love
oh he got the 0.5 though
[Music]
[Laughter]
it's a little pen I like it the pilot G2
this is the point zero five we have
right here I'm gonna I'm gonna review it
draw with it saw the unboxing
assemblance there it is pilot G
2.05 Black Ink it also comes in 0.38
millimeter
1.0 millimeter and when I went to buy
them in the store they didn't have the
point seven millimeters no the nice
thing about this reviews bunk is you can
just buy refills so
I've got some point seven millimeter
refills thank God the refills come with
the ink size so that's what I did there
I'm going to try drawing with all of
those thank God interestingly enough it
says here proven number one longest
riding versus average of top gel ink
brands
and then if you go on the website
there's like even here there's a lot of
little asterisks and it says they have
like data on file and stuff and I sent
them an email saying hey can I see the
data
and I was curious what kind of deer they
had about this and all they said
literally was and I'm reading in a test
performed G2 writes longer than any
branded gel ink pen claim was tested
first of all I don't know what that
means partly because that sentence
doesn't make any sense grammatically
but they say the products they tested
comprised over 80 percent of branded
competitive market so they felt
confident labeling themselves the
longest writing let's go with Peter gel
ink pen or whatever but they won't show
us the test they won't show us the data
release the files what's the point of
having the data on file if they won't
show it
they have some numbers this is the
apology two's average write out how many
how long of a line I guess it could
write without running out was
1480.3 meters and the average right out
for the competition was only about half
of that at 752.6 meters
but if it gets the stats to actually
tests doesn't really mean anything
because what if they include a pen only
wrote for one meter I had to bring the
average way down right who knows it
really went on there anyways I would I
want to say that this is a pen the pilot
G2 that I've used uh a ton in my life I
use this way back I use it in high
school I love riding with it because I
took notes and Drew things and wrote
things I've drawn a lot of pictures with
the pilot G2 I've written a lot of words
and I've seen a lot of other people use
these I think I would call this a an
all-time classic right it is an all-time
classic art supply stores I buy these at
office supply stores
or marketed As Art Supply but of course
we all know that you can use whatever
you want for art that's the wonderful
thing about it they say the black and
blue ink is archival which means that
it's acid free or non-acidic or
something oh look it drew right away
that's good I don't know I always draw
myself like that but um if you use your
other colors to write on photos and
stuff it might ruin your photos over
time and of course it is nice because
it's easy to replace these ink
cartridges after you've written all
1480.3 meters
non-in part here at the end it used to
look a little bit more like caramel and
now it looks a little bit more coconut
flavored I should probably
find out what the true nature of it is
we can extract a small amount of it and
see if it does indeed taste like the
coconut that it looks like okay now upon
closer inspection
it looks like maybe some sort of uh it
looks like Vaseline maybe almost
odorless I'm I can smell the wood of the
taste I didn't know that it was I
thought it was glue I thought it was
dried
on their product sheet on the website
somewhere I saw they said it's non-toxic
so
very oily both I can't believe he tried
it
let's go
let's stick with your normal lunch spot
right now
we should also find out about the
signature of the ink inside I'm just
gonna skip right by oh I love I used to
buy these g2s and I'd break them and
just spill the ink everywhere because
it's so beautiful to just build ink
everywhere it doesn't really seems like
gelatinous once you get rid of the
petroleum Belly jelly base
um as you can see it doesn't it still
doesn't really come pouring out of there
all right that seems a little bit more
gelatinous you see that globbing onto
there
pretty nice
a little bit if you wanted to and um
hopefully this also is non-toxic
why is he trying to eat
that's so sick it's like Home Depot
smells
um jelly
I would have been to over the
caramelized stuff because
the weird caramelic and stuff is just a
little bit misleading so I go for the
ink over the caramel stuff all right
right so let's get out of drawing and
I'll tell you a few more things about
how I feel about these
a few more pertinent points hopefully
than the flavors
sizes okay for all four sizes
represented here fairly I'm going to
start by putting one of these refills
into one of these 0.1 pins so I'm going
to put a 0.7 into a point one even
though it hasn't run out yet it's okay
I'm just going to draw on a piece of
printer paper he started with the 0.7
thank God
so without pilot providing copies of
their proprietary testing to outside
sources I had to do a little testing of
my own in this little Doodle that's
really all it is I'm mixing little lines
and shapes together in ways that
entertain me I think I conclusively
tested uh all four sizes of the pens
zero three eight uh I mean 0.38.5.7 and
1.0 and I conclusively concluded that
these things are smooth as butter I
really enjoy drawing with them they do
really lay down the ink very
satisfyingly that's probably not a word
I better say in a satisfying way they
lay down the ink well I had on regular
paper I had no smudging problems at all
but I am pretty used to not smudging
um there are lots of great websites out
there that show that smudging isn't
the process in my experience over these
pens do smudge them if you wipe your
finger across the ink immediately after
you draw the line but if you give it
just a few seconds to dry I think you'll
be okay
then again if you've drawn some very
slick paper it always takes longer all
these pens are great for coloring in
dark little sections of Blackness
especially with the 0.10 the fattest
thickest one that's all they're pretty
great at it I did notice every now and
then though it seemed like when I was
drawing longer lines every now and then
it seemed like I would get one line that
wasn't just quite as deep uh and
satisfying of a darkness and it was a
little bit lighter gray maybe there was
maybe some little feed problems maybe
just like 50 of the ink was going on to
the little rolly ball so these are
ballpoint pens and I don't know if it's
maybe
it was just because it was near the
beginning of the pen being used it was
just still getting warmed up or
something I don't know
um you can use these either Point
straight up and down or a little bit to
the side of the angle some of the other
pins I use work better at you know up
and down or at an angle you know like
fountain pen repair and angle retro
nasographs work better up and down these
are a lot more flexible
either way so that's good to know they
have a comfortable grip some people in
the past have noticed sometimes it's a
little bit annoying when you press down
there's a little bit of give as the the
nib and the ink cartridge on side of it
moves a little bit I didn't notice that
at all with these although I have
noticed that with other pens in the past
mostly you know anything you have a
click it's got that whole moving
mechanism on the inside that can be a
problem that I didn't notice that with
these and I also noticed that for some
reason the 0.7 and the 1.0 have darker
darker kind of smoky Smoky plastic
instead of totally clear plastic I'm not
sure why but they just do
and that dilute totally doesn't really
seem to affect anything either don't try
this at home Etc just stick to the
Twizzlers and you should live a long
productive life let me know what other
bands you want me to review and I'll get
to it I'm thinking maybe
I also enjoyed these other pins called
uniball Vision pens I used those a lot
when I was a an up-and-comer what you
don't need fancy pens you just need to
enjoy drawing and then you'll do it a
lot the pen a nice pen is just a plus
it's just like a little add-on all right
this is a nice pen I'd recommend it to
anyone it's good it's good for all sorts
of unrelated activities all right I'll
see you all around bye
is this the Peter Pan
daily beloved I welcome you all here
today with
salutations greetings and great news
I'm happy to announce and present this I
love this available but delicious
scrumptious glorious excellent and
custom limited it only makes sense that
this guy has a pen is amazing all right
I'm excited about this one with the
pencil away I'll show you what we've got
here
as you can see there's four different
zip ties I'm happy to show you
fine medium Broad and stub custom Mozart
made by me as with all these Peter pens
I like making these and put in my name
on it because I get to have such a table
part of all the customization and
everything so here you have the Peter
Pan
it opens up it's another lure and in
there is the pen it comes with a little
wrench for adjusting the Piston if you
need to beautiful slides back in has a
little pull tab right there we've got a
silk already
look at that I made a doodle I drew a
picture and it was engraved on this
clear pen body so it's a cool
transparent pen but you can see through
it and see the lines going around it on
both sides as always it has this
built-in piston converter for sucking up
ink it holds the ink inside of this you
don't have to you don't have to buy your
cartridges or anything
it's beautiful
the lid comes off there it is this is
the stub nib
nice black nib black accents on
everything yeah
that's cool what do you think
anything and you can feel the lines too
there's a there's a texture to it so the
detectile element if you're in that sort
of thing which which I am pretty much so
he's so proud of it dude I love it man
let's go back up I got some other
warnings here four different inks four
four different pens for the one engage
pen and then the clowning achievement
the the cherry on top with the fourth
one
sorry
the chair on top of this pen is that
each one comes with a limited edition
Peter draw's little Sketchbook right
because the same part on it from the art
in the back of the box and without even
says Peter draws on the back of yourself
or narwhal on there and if you're into a
little bit of structure it's not the the
dots on there well backward which you
know if you don't look it's not true the
Dot's only get in the label if you do
you know if you want it for writing they
can still providing straight lines I
think a little series of prongs in here
with the different pens and inks and
powders we've got about a couple of pens
already loaded up with some ink here's
the fine nib I have uh green the green
Dark Forest pink in there it's hard to
see how green it is unless you you know
it's all up on top that's often
condensed the voltage that you can see I
think this is the broad nib which I have
the orchid flower you can see it into
that purple in there and I I don't even
build it all the way there's even just a
little blurb of what we're making there
lasts a long time it's more than you
think
um
the Dark Forest done about the for the
the
Atlantic blue what is the ink made of
and it will start sucking up in there
since there was already some air in the
nib and in the system there there's a
little uh
some bubbles might come out but you can
get rid of the air at the top of some
bubbles I just only upright and turning
it like so
a little
there you go
there's a nice blue
with a stub nib
Peter Pan figures now there's a link in
the description there's only 500 of
these available damn gone forever thank
you to everyone who has bought them in
the past appreciate all the support uh
I'm thankful to all of you for making
something like this possible you know
it's a dream threatening any artist or
anything to be able to have their own
line of pen so I'm very very thankful
and uh yeah thank you this guy's so sick
man he just did what he loves and got to
where he is bruh it's so cool all right
so what are we at here
why did I open this book
X over X probably returns in right
what is dot
that is
that doesn't make any sense dude that
one that one is wild
that one is wild to me
hey
your dad just uh
your dad just wish me happy birthday
if it was allowed it's funny
that's allowed here I'll send you what I
tried to text you
it's really good
Wolfram is crazy for this one this one
just makes no sense
hold on
no
where it's on Google photos
okay
not yet oh here we go
oh
that's so sweet
oh that's really nice tell them I say
thank you
okay that's the I just want to hear your
reaction to the photo
I'll talk to you later
okay all right love you what are you
guys doing today
[Music]
nice
let me see bye
oh man
how does this work so so is the head of
this dot though
it is so wait so but if I do 1.55 ahead
of that is it still Dot
it's real
that is so random dude
I don't get that
wait maybe this is just not
this is still Dot
it's still dot that doesn't
bro that doesn't compute for me
Wolfram is definitely one of the
craziest languages
foreign
assumes that students will have access
to a computer address system
I wonder if
and so yeah this would be cool to work
through and make my cast as capable as
needed I feel like there's no way it
will be
I find varieties would you like a farm
variety
I have some paralysis over if I should
Implement power I feel like power
is okay to Omit for now
but one thing that I would rather do is
uh
shoot see that's the problem with the
foundations of something is like
is like once the the system has grown it
becomes increasingly hard to modify the
foundation and so that's why the
foundation has to be dead simple and
perfect and that's what Mathematica is
it's like dead simple and perfect
they got real int complex and what what
else
rational rational is just
yeah and rational
foreign
maybe I need a rat type
but why not just keep rat as div
that's weird
foreign
but it's just one over 1.5 give me does
that take the
dude their numbers are crazy though
like it gets displayed as that but like
yeah dude what the [__]
wait but if I just type in
if I type this in
that's [__] crazy what
but what if I just do this
so if you reach enough digits it just
says that
so this is the number of digits how many
is that
one two three four five six seven eight
nine ten eleven twelve thirteen if you
have
so if I do the same thing
it's crazy bro I I don't get it
okay
immediately my cast has the problem
of
no complex numbers
[Music]
another time
let's go
some dollars
I guess I don't know
[Music]
man I wish I might drum set I used to
have a drum set I was looking oh all up
on it all up on it bro
hold on um
let's see what it sounds like pitched up
actually I don't want to start the whole
[__] web server and everything it's
kind of lame
is this running
huh
when did that fail
see what is my Elite code
like when is gpt5 coming out that's what
I want to know
foreign
this because I forgot all of this
terminology but I feel like it's gonna
provide some good context
plus I need a break from
Panther leads
well maybe I'll read some more about
daes
but I don't want to like mess with the
code
I mean I really want it to work but I
think
I'm not happy with
we might need to make cast three
we'll just actually make the changes so
that I can
impose the structure that the left hand
side contains differential variables
unless it's an algebraic
equation
because
in Julia that's what they do is you have
to put you have to do the isolation
yourself which is like kind of cringe to
be honest but
it's actually just super cringe
foreign
this
is
foreign
did it work
yeah yeah it worked okay
[Music]
All I'm gonna stop
okay
what's zero zero is an in right
everyone everyone coaches the God
invented
the
integers
oh I didn't know this was a book by
Stephen Hawking that's pretty cool
it's such a beautiful quote man
God invented the integers
rust is kind of a pain to write I I have
like
it's nice but at the same time
okay so the the structure of a
polynomial is going to be
I wish I could do
there wait hold on let's do this
what
what the hell is some
is it oh it's Plus
but see the problem with the structure
that I have is that
we don't have
a bar
y'all rats bro y'all rats [__] you
[__] rats
so wait
okay fine but in that case then you have
ugh yeah
making it a binary tree is kind of
unfortunate
[Music]
foreign
thank you
right yeah that makes sense
expand fails and then it just leaves it
unevaluated
or like it doesn't it doesn't look into
its inner uh yeah it doesn't look at its
r's
okay hold on
what is the head of x
symbol
um
foreign
hmm
okay so in Wolfram
div of
int
goes to rat
and div of real
real
goes to real
is it double equals or just I think it's
double equals right this is the
what
foreign
do hold on whatever
how would it do that
can I just call it real
oh yeah I always forget about that dude
they just call it n
make it a number
so built into the Parcher is this infix
thing
computer algebra is beautiful man
so wait what is the
yeah yeah yeah
but like what is the full form of this
it's gonna just be it's gonna
self-evaluate
yeah but like can you is there like a
ply
yeah hold on apply X
and
Mathematica is such a beautiful language
dude
I just wish I could do something real
with it
maybe I should maybe I should buy it and
mess around with system modeler
Lego Segway
oh they have a glycolysis model
um
bro I've been abusing these trials so
much
during installation
foreign
you can read in an sbml model
glycolysis
hmm
I'll probably need to get xcode I don't
think I have xcode I actually was like
15 gigs which is a really freaking lame
pretty modified
date added date created date added
it's wild that nobody uses This I Swear
what is it doing
the temperature in the tank influences a
reaction rate while the temperature in
the cooling jackets acts as a cool
control signal the goal is to go from
one concentration to another as quickly
as possible while being safety
limitations in temperature
that's
like interactively study Model Behavior
what is that font bro
in this open
I just want the tools
foreign
oh here we go
cool
in this video we will be using system
modeler
the model key transport between two
bodies it will start by changing the
user mode
interface
which makes life easier now let's start
by creating our model do this we can
choose file new class or click the first
item
let's name the first model heat transfer
and add a description
now we are going to find components for
the model
the modular Library contains models for
many areas for example mechanical
elliptical and heat transfer model
opponent
let's see what's in that glycolysis
thing
it's a medelica file
systems biology add-on needs to be
enabled
to enable this add-on open the options
dialog box
that's using
what the [__] did I just tell me
tools
why doesn't it just do it for me is my
question
oh I see why
I don't see where the hell that is maybe
that's outdated
just
I feel like nothing will work if I
bruh
foreign
[Music]
man
well so you didn't need Mathematica to
do this
wow look at that
was freaking cool man
it's social science
I want to look at the Lego Segway
example
oh wow that's actually
super cool
wait it makes this video
how the hell does it do that dude that
is so good and cool man
real-time simulation
[__] dude
dude I want to watch all these videos
these videos are sick
why
is that what what does that even mean
wow that's a cool plot man
wait what what else was oh [__]
wait a phone
all right
I don't know what any of that means
oh wow
dude that's a sweet plot
does that have a
dude like I feel like an AI
modeling system is just like clearly
gonna be the way Ford
what
oh these pictures are just superimposed
that doesn't mean anything
ATP in the cytosol
foreign
what is an OPC server
okay
foreign
[Music]
all right
why is that a person's name
see there's like lots of things that are
just like not as good but like the core
is really good
where is this thing
what the hell is an op amp
what
what's going on here
here wait wait what the [__] is going on
here
you can just copy the clipboard
hold on
foreign
whoa
damn bro
what is that what am I even looking at
this is
block RLC parallel RS RLC RLC
and I want to simulate
oh and you can just have multiple open
that's pretty sweet actually
oh interesting
so how do I
like is there a
fmu sbml total model
University of Tennessee
hmm
foreign
copy
somehow I missed the capacitor
extends real file new class
foreign
should be able to do this
move that over there
delete that
how do I grab the port
okay
what the hell that is
oh I see
what is wrong bro
close all about this let's close out
with this nice
messages
okay can we do validate
It's gotta be in here
oh
bro
it's getting hot in here
hmm
I feel like we're not doing anything
that warrants some of it
no but yeah it's taking too long
foreign
[Music]
okay now if I go to this
can I just run it now
Dazzle
why why dude there's so much
um
it must
foreign
nine years ago
holy hell
this guy pet sold is a g
Linda
she's the she's a G man
foreign
Princeton
this is advisor
whoa
This Guy's super famous right wait is he
one of the
he's one of the um
the Martians
yeah
that's cool
hold on did it fail again
choices
I don't know why these are the only
algorithms
cool
Okay cool so what if what if we do this
now
[Music]
um
yeah we want to drive the LLC circuit
dynamic because Roc is a filter right
let's make it let's make it 440. now
let's make it 220.
and then this equation
try to run it
text formats are beautiful because
really
is this the full thing
what do you mean
all right if I do this it might delete
everything
so why don't we do
we'll save this
we'll do new class
oh that's kind of cool
no we're not gonna do that
how do I go to the actual
class browser
rename validate new class save export
copy properties
how do you go to the
Delica code
nice
what okay fine
so let me go back to this
there should be some algorithm to
generate
oh and it generates the documentation
it's so cool
they're a way to have the
whole front system modeler
excuse a
find a layout
since I pasted this in it doesn't
contain any of the
annotations for layout
but I feel like there should be a way
up
yeah
generates one
no way
people is five people
it's all just him and medium that's
hilarious
medium is a random one
dude he's such a [__]
[__]
dude this is sick actually
do they respond to people
this icon view this diagram view so you
go to the diagram View and you put them
in
that seems weird
because if you go to the modelica code
metal is globally balanced
oh cool four equations in the transform
integration problem three are trivial
please give me a wave
how do I mute this
damn it
what
foreign
[Music]
simulation Wolfram system modeler
oh that's so cool I want to see that
where does it use wool from alpha
fast freaking rad man
remove all my bro what are you [__]
doing
oh [__]
what's NB oh notebook yeah
go to The Notebook
that's such an l
where's code
is it not in my applications
um
[Music]
L that makes something annoying I'll
have to fix that
but it definitely should be in
applications
okay so now we go back to our downloads
you know here here here
choose application
code visual
wait we can I think we can do this
[Laughter]
okay well what if I just
that doesn't work
you can't upload without a plan
man that sucks dude
what happens if I just naively try to
[__] copy this in here
there's just no way
oh nice oh that's sick
this will fail I think
that is super cool
wow
maybe I should just spend the money
and buy Wolfram
it's just so good
oh
all right let me commit my code
foreign
thing
because it would be so much easier if we
had VAR args
and then you have then you have an Airy
expression trees and you don't you don't
need to worry about that because like
for my case of real numbers
applying these simplification rules I
feel like will be easier if you flatten
things like for example writing a
function that determines whether or not
an expression is a polynomial
is so much easier when you have n area I
feel like maybe it's not actually but at
least it feels that way
because you don't have to write a loop
all you have to say is
um
is Plus
of pow
of
real
or of symbol
ER
is that true I think that's true
oh what
if I wanted to write my own
understand
how it works
uh
I want to write my own that's how it
looks
teams
[Music]
what is list EXP
foreign
list
dude it's so insane
that people don't
like
Mathematica is slept on dude
that's sick
damn bro's got a pro xdr display
it's pretty sick
dude I feel like you'll be so
instructive to try to recreate
Mathematica
foreign
I mean it's just the best all right
let's make some food
it is just remarkable how good it is man
like it's just such a beautiful thing I
can't get over it like
people be like hey yeah it's cool but
like can't use it for anything real
[Music]
are we back we're back okay cool
maybe uh
maybe I will
buy Mathematica
how much is it though I feel like it's
expensive
but I can just commit dude I'm I'm such
a [__] I should just commit
got a local bread
foreign
[Music]
I feel like I could leave
spices
[Music]
oh my smelling was a formidable foe
at all
so stick up for yourself son
never mind what anybody else does stick
up for yourself some
never mind what anybody else does
[Laughter]
I can't
[Music]
I can't be glad
Stone
guys I'm actually so bummed I just
looked up the lyrics to this song
apparently it doesn't say my smelling
was a formidable foe I really wish that
was the case
because that's so much more
[Music]
relevant to me
people think I stink
oh really
that's so Random
I always thought he was saying my
smelling was a formidable foe
and I thought it was awesome
he's boxing in the Olympics
oh look at these icons
ioc discipline code that's sick
that's so funny that there's an ioc
discipline code
I mean it makes sense
you need some sort of schema for like
planning events you might as well use
some standard
otherwise all hell breaks loose what's
still hilarious
who wins in boxing
wait what
women's boxing bro
oh I see there's two columns
Uzbekistan one Cuba Cuban boxers are
crazy man
super heavyweight boxing
America
wait this is Uzbekistan versus USA
this is Tokyo Tokyo was one year ago
that's not finals
whatever
uh Cuba
I hate how hard it is to find
wait actually what is this
best Nation oh they must add up all the
wins
[__]
super heavyweight
dude it's crazy that he's white
I guess
did I switch the scene
punches
Torres Jr
from the American
belting his opponent
that's the light hits
foreign
oh come on man
and this guy he's welcome
[Music]
here
foreign
oh look at this slip there
all right
continue
all right from youngs
Mark Young
oh
he's just so alert
yeah
foreign
let's see middleweight
yes I am happy
some of their shitty website
this indicates the video but it's
clearly [__] not
dude what oh here we go
uh
you know it's not even worth it I don't
care
foreign
all right what do we want to do now
all right
how does it work
oh wow that's really cool
now if it didn't need input and got the
input from them from
no no that's not any different
God I've looked at this so much
should I just do it
does this come with
hold on
pricing
350 dollars
dude why is it so expensive bro
it's so annoying man
okay I think this is what I'm gonna do
to array and has several dozen
electrodes in it with the neurons
growing on top and while we could use
those neurons to learn to control just
about anything we're training them to
play Doom
that after somebody got doomed doing a
pregnancy test we needed to step things
up a bit and run it on a living
neurons ready let's go start with one of
our home brew Intruder rays
alcohol and
once they're clean we give them a
external water and then
Paulie D lysine
's for an hour we were
the neurons food which in this case
essential liquid could cause
chloro basal media
to warm up in our
incubator and then we thought tube of
Frozen live neurons and bring both into
our flow Hood so we have a clean place
to work all we do now bro somewhat
someone someone commented on on thought
importance video animal abuse is not
science
could you imagine being someone like
that
I mean I somewhat
agree where's the line where like you're
torturing this
neuron but
that ain't itchy not yet
it's just crazy
God it's 300 hold on
where's the pricing
oh you could just buy it
personal
if I get it for life then I might just
do it
what is personal license service
foreign
I think this is indefinite
four hundred dollars for
God I want it so bad
what's Wolfram player
oh well I think you get everything
I think if you get wolf from when do you
get
no I don't even know what the hell is
this
foreign
why am I like
I looked this up a bunch of times before
Warframe one versus Mathematica
but one is like all right wait let's
compare the non-student pricings
Mathematica
pricing
home and hobby
it's twice as expensive though
wait it's actually similar pressed
no it's not it's a hundred dollars more
what is this personal license service
[Music]
oh actually
wait but Mathematica is just on the
desktop
okay Waits okay this is the one you
don't need
that for sure
so then it seems like they're
similarly priced with
this
foreign
pricing is pretty good 75 bucks
within system modeler is so expensive
System model is like so so expensive and
it's like pretty mid
362 minus
that should be 75 roughly
what wait wait uh did I did I do that
wrong
foreign
oh but that's annually
that's annually but I think that this
you have forever
then this would be pretty worth actually
because I don't know if you can buy
I don't think you get Cloud though
dude their pricing their entire products
would be just like
so
ridiculous
what is the student Edition
foreign
pricing
how is that allowed
dude online they say that wolfram's a
billionaire
he could be
nice okay
so maybe I should buy this maybe I
should [__] it doesn't say anything
about annual right
foreign
that would be insane
look I keep doxing myself
foreign
dude I've been tempted so many times to
buy this thing it's 400 bucks I feel
like I should just do it
I emailed them asking if like
supposedly if I graduate in two years
because like if I get the current state
of the model the motto is not even worth
that much but you get an indefinite
copy of Mathematica which is pretty
sweet
the thing is the cloud
well the okay hold on
this is desktop and Cloud for a year
which is pretty nice
oh what
wait did I just get it
oh
dude I'm gonna download it
I need to get my own computer though
but I want the system modeler
does the system model or not
come with it I would love if it did
though
dude it's so sick that uh uchicago gets
me Mathematica
Brian never graduating just to keep
Mathematica
it sucks about the modeler though
at least I have that for 30 days
so I could link it up to this
I remember this takes a while
foreign
and I was like trying to get away with
stealing one of these licenses for uh
this pharmacometric software and the
people that developed it were like right
there but I didn't know that it was them
and I was like
I was like um I was pretending to still
be in school
and they email me and they're like uh
your LinkedIn profile says that you work
at Julia I was like anyways
it was just so embarrassing for them
obviously not for me they should have
given it to me
if you're so upset about people trying
to use your product that you look up
their LinkedIn every time they have a
request
then it's probably not that good
it's probably just not that good
software
that's so weird
bro
Brian Johnson's sick
how can I make my team better funny you
ask I've been doing this High fems
device on my pillow floor and actually
seeing a pretty substantial increase in
nighttime function both in strength and
duration and that became one of the most
interesting data points of people
they're like I want more at night we
looked into the data what are the
characteristics of nighttime for both
strength and duration and how do they
map to age so we started to look at it
from a biological perspective of Central
Health function you start with these
initial ideas and they just naturally
step into these other domains which is
what blueprint is all about like we're
walking into this Frontier and we
oftentimes find these surprising
outcomes which just inform us on the
next step how can I make dude I love
Brian Johnson he's got such a good and
like he made all this money so now you
can literally just devote his entire
life to just this and him it's beautiful
thank you
dude I really hope they don't look me up
in the system that'd be such [__]
foreign
[Music]
something crazy like that
how much space is on this computer
what is my mom do on this computer
nothing
foreign
do we still need that I really hope not
cool
my mom's not gonna care
plus then the stream will have
Mathematica
foreign
so at the beginning I probably wouldn't
do any of the infix oh let's go
okay
guide me through the creation
of a computer algebra system
just like uh
I'm thinking
I want to make pressure as simple as
possible
one so that it can be generated with a
parser
that's starting in Rust
uh
and using a lisp like syntax
so instead of
plus one two three
four
X of T it's
plus one two three and
x t
um
yeah this would be the second time
writing something like this except in
this case
if I look at lispereple
sex expressions
but interestingly
uh
yeah the parser turns that into symbol
of
but what we have to do like Plus
would we have to do that
oh would the pressure just be if that's
not numeric
then it is a symbol I feel like that's
fine I feel like I we don't need this
okay so this okay
ER
hold on
is this the oh hold on let's buy someone
else
bro him back in the day dude yo
[Music]
hello I'm Stephen wolfen this is going
to take about Mathematica we'll be
divided into two parts first of all I'll
go quickly through and show you some of
the things that America can do and then
we'll come back and look at more detail
and see how you can use it to solve some
of your own computational problems
three basic points numerical
compilations symbolic algebraic
calculations and graphics and
pneumatical populations when working
with numbers and results that involve
just numerical answers and some more
contribute computation
mathematical objects let me start off
then by showing you quickly the radical
calculations and Graphics in Mathematica
let's start off doing a very simple
numerical calculation
so we lost mathematical to add three and
five together the basic mode interacting
with Mathematica at least in its basic
form is this you type in a question
answer our first question what's three
plus five mathematical we'll think for a
racial amount of time and then give us
the answer it's eight okay let's try
something more difficult let's say we
lost a good workout something like three
to the power 1000.
and it's just hilarious that like like
no computer language does this well
actually is that true
I think I python
uh
look at some support and algebraic
calculations
we could start by expanding from the
route here's the result this is by
multiplying out these small the small
polynomial raised to the power six
that's something that's how clinically a
lot more difficult is to take this
result and Factor it try and crunch it
back
again the original form
atted in calculus let's do a simple
example of that let's say we lost
Mathematica to integrate the expression
X cubed minus one so we just say
integrate x over two minus one with
respect to X then mathem for a while and
eventually give us the result here it's
a result tangents and logarithms come up
with this by ourselves [__]
I wanna uh
where is that video that I
it's from a while ago
oh okay here we go this is a classic
video I love this because the first
thing that he does is he explains the
self-evaluability of symbols
I'd like to show you a bit about our
Wilson life he's got British teeth for
sure man you know I've been working
towards what's now the Wolfram language
for about 30 years and big parts of it
I've been able to incubate in
mathematical and more from alpha but
it's only in recent times that we
finally had what we need to create the
whole Wolfram language and to set up
mechanisms to deploy it very widely
we're actually an incredibly exciting
point right now where we're suddenly
able to take computation to a whole
hold on
what is the best though
oh it's on GitHub
how do you use it
what's it written in Python
this is the open source
Sage
let me look at some code bro it's it's I
hate these readme's that are like read
me only if you've already bought into
the idea of using it
well that's a cool plot I like that
he used the sage kernel yeah
can't use it online
wow
you see Davis that's pretty cool
this guy used to work on it
but he doesn't contribute to it anymore
but he runs it
hilarious
he used to be a professor
all right hold on let's go back to the
club and in effect inject sophisticated
computation into everything
so what is the Wolfram language
well the first thing to say is that it's
a new kind of thing it's what I call a
knowledge-based language it's a language
where a vast amount of knowledge about
how to do computations and about the
world is built right into a language so
like within the language there are
Primitives for processing images or
laying out networks or hooking up stock
prices or creating interfaces or solving
optimization problems or whatever and
through the symbolic structure of the
language they're all set up to work
together in a wonderfully coherent way
let me show you one of the great things
about the Wilson language is that if you
want to you can use it completely
interactively even on the web so you can
type something in and immediately get a
result out like this
well like this yes it's fast of course
it knows how to factor that number two
it's got all the fancy algorithms built
right in it's also got immediate
visualization
it also knows right off the bat like how
to get your friend network from Facebook
it lays out the network automatically
and it knows all the fancy graph Theory
algorithms so you can immediately ask it
all kinds of things about the network
like how do your friends break into
groups or what's the most connections
any friend has
both language knows how to do lots of
things like a tasker to get the current
image from my computer's camera Ah
that's me well let's like Edge detect me
I can have it be dynamic too
I can do all kinds of computations like
there's me broken into little squares
and there's me with a random color
Blended in each square and now
reassembled
the open language doesn't just know
about algorithms and computations it
also knows about the world like let's
ask it when the sun will set today
there's the answer to my current
location there's the time from sunrise
to sunset in days
converted to minutes
you know the wolf language has a precise
way of talking about everything but when
we're dealing with a World At Large we
often just want to use natural language
to describe what's the full form of that
today
called
uh
so is today a symbol
today
today is crazy because
I'm ahead of this it's gonna be the same
because it gets evaluated
oh but it is different
yeah
okay fine so uh sunset today minus Suns
surprise
today
working with dates is gonna be crazy
oh it's in hours now
it used to be in days
quantity
all right let's go back to see it is
this the right video and thanks to
Wolfram Alpha we built a big stack of
technology for doing that
like we can just ask for countries in
South America and our natural language
understanding system can figure out what
that means and generate precise open
language code from it so that we get a
list of the countries and now we can
compute from that like let's generate
the flags well let's find the dominant
colors in those flags well let's have a
whole little program to make a table of
countries and they don't apply colors
okay let's try something more ambitious
let's get a list of the capitals of the
countries in Western Europe now let's
find what order we have to visit these
and have the shortest tour of all of
them needless to say the language has
the best known algorithms for solving
the so-called traveling salesman problem
like that
language has detailed maps and
everywhere built in okay well I've been
doing different kinds of examples
there's really a huge amount built into
Wilson language you've got a sense of it
here thousands of algorithmic functions
thousands of domains of data and
knowledge but in a sense that's just the
beginning because there's so much more
power from being able to put all these
things together and what makes that
possible is the structure of the open
language and the principles that it's
built on the first really critical thing
to understand about wolf language is
that it's symbolic
yes yes
it's just so beautiful I love it man
wait now that I have it
is this up to date
no but I saw a new library
but Pi is like a predefined symbol
like you can't overwrite pie probably
like if I say pi equals three
cool
why is it taking so long
Mathematica man
all right
all right so let's go back to
do we want Nam what parser do we use in
my thing
Peg
there's a b there's a b
was just trying to be my friend
foreign
okay
um
thank you
Pros oh yeah okay
cons of what type of parser to use
I'm not very familiar
before I explored using
Peg parser
foreign
[Music]
thank you
foreign
book
I like that it compiles to wasm or
something
so the book in The Docks try it here
here's my grammar
wait int
program
what does the empty list mean
does this fail
wait an empty list
the empty list errors but wait what if I
just call
wait no but no no that's not right that
works but you're supposed to do this
and then that is
sugar
that's sugar and gravy baby
is everything a list
lisp is just like staring straight into
the sun
you're just like what is going on
how do you get started
bruh
yes yes
that would have sucked bro
nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice
nice
okay now let's
let's um
I'm gonna quit this
quit this
I'm going to open up system modeler
again
uh not that one
System model
nice
I gotta fix that thing
um
wait
oh [__]
foreign
we have Mathematica
okay
no we don't we need to just get as fast
as possible to
this thing so then you say
foreign
[Music]
let's add a pretty print
hey hey hey
[Music]
what
parsing is the least interesting thing
about this
foreign
[Music]
symbol
you know be funny if I wrote
Mathematica in math in Mathematica so
Parsha and everything would be hilarious
a strap
foreign
what if I just do this
[Music]
I'm just like not interested in parsing
at all
this guy's being so stupid man just do
it just [__] do it I do not have time
to
be bothered by this
foreign
took us a while to get back going to
this stupid [__] parsing is just not
interesting
to me
the interesting part about this is
getting to
all right we're gonna leave that in
we're going to do CRM
uh pastora
T add rust Peg
what is it called
oh
I think it's just called Peg
foreign
I'm going back to
what did I have before
why is that any different
I have no idea
foreign
should we keep it as a string
nice okay there we go fine finally
hey
pretty good
relaxing yeah
yeah uh Josh and Susie did my mom did
no you know
yes I know the thing
oh yeah
oh wait oh sh yeah I'd probably have
that
okay yeah no I just don't I just don't
remember seeing it that's the only
reason they're like I didn't look at my
back
okay finally now the real question is
who handles the numbers
okay
but if you call
list
once
X of t
this turns into list
XT
right because it replaced or no no no no
hold on
oh wait let's let's do let's get it
excuse me but we will be closing all
tabs to the right
student Edition
why does it have to say that
wait
is this Mathematica
option command slash
no
damn this is nice
uh
wait but what was I doing before
foreign
that is the full form
that is the yeah right right right right
because the way that calls
yeah yeah yeah but we're we're chilling
okay so now what do we need to do
hey
okay so this this thing would be equal
to a of one
two and you do comma separate them you
do X of t one
what is this
interesting yeah so the parsers are
slightly different but
this would be a two
0.3
but now the interesting thing is how it
does numbers
I think the arbitrary Precision stuff is
probably
foreign
but how do you bootstrap right like
you want to write
damn okay
foreign
thing
does this work let's see this is purse
string X
we want this to be
plus three two
oh what's the full form of a function
definition that's a good question
[Music]
um
that's full screen this so that we can
swipe
um
it I mean it has to be bootstrapped
somehow but I'm wondering if I'm leading
myself down like a flawed path you know
I'm not sure
thank you
foreign
let's go back to that video
and of course this is great for math but
one of the big discoveries of the
Wolfram language is that it gives you a
way to do a zillion other things too
let's say you've got some data with a
part you don't know you can just treat
it symbolically
what about something like a network
well in the Wilson language it's a
symbolic expression too that displays as
a goth but you can go ahead and
manipulate it symbolically too
same with 3D graphics
go ahead and create a symbolic form
render it as 3D Graphics now because
everything is symbolic I can just pick
up this output and say feed it into an
image processing algorithm or I can make
a table of rotated versions of the image
something else that's a symbolic
expression of the orphan language is a
user interface element like a slide I
can make a whole grid of them build up
any user interface all just represented
by a symbolic expression same with
documents and document elements too all
just symbolic and once things are
symbolic it's easy to do meta operations
on them like take a plot and effectively
just pick it up and make a dynamic
version of it
you can make a dynamic version of
anything
and because everything is a symbolic
expression it all just works
you know any function can be treated
symbolically here's just F symbolic f
and actually underneath the full form of
everything in the language is like this
just a bunch of symbolic functions
representing formulas or data sets or
documents or cities or whatever
so what can you do with these symbolic
functions
well one thing is incredibly powerful
functional programming
Nest to function symbolically or put
more and more frames around okay all
right okay holy [__]
dude he is just too good something I'll
make a kind of nested interface
okay here's something more ambitious
let's use functional programming to do
some web crawling the Wolfram language
already knows how to import lots of
things like hyperlinks from my website
it's a little more code but let's
nestedly crawl out a couple of levels
that make a graph of what that corner of
the web looks like you know you can make
symbolic pure functions do all sorts of
things like this takes the list of
English words that are built into the
welcome language and creates a function
to find which one is nearest to a given
word
now you can pick up this function and
apply it to any word and make a simple
spell corrector
pill functions and functional
programming getting everywhere here's
selecting palindrome words based on a
simple symbolic pure function
you can generalize this dramatically and
for example get a shockingly powerful
symbolic way to query databases
and large
political collections of data
in a sense the Autumn language is kind
of the ultimate Fusion language because
it's symbolic nature lets it Encompass
pretty much any style of programming one
that's very powerful and kind of
uniquely symbolic is pattern-based
programming the idea is you give a
pattern for transforming some class of
symbolic expressions like this says that
anytime there's an F of some particular
nested list structure here's the value
so now if we give F this kind of
structure it'll produce the result but
if the pattern doesn't match it'll just
stay symbolic and this is basically how
all function definitions in the world
from language work the welcome language
is a huge
Okay so
dude
so how do you do that
but they're like okay
so wait what if I try to
right because this
is
times
3 X
and you can't
baby do you do equals
how do you do the
it'll produce the result
but if the pattern doesn't match it'll
just stay symbolic and this is basically
how all function definitions in the
world from language work though often
language is a huge Language by far the
largest devil but it's built on a small
set of powerful principles the first is
coherence the idea that everything in
the language must fit together I must
say that I've spent a fair fraction of
the past 30 years working to make this
happen designing every corner of the
language so it's as consistent and
unified and integrated as possible so
it's easy to understand and someone can
take something from over here and be
confident that it'll feed right into
something over there
I've had another principle too maximum
automation the idea that the language
should take care of as much as possible
let's say you're doing machine learning
and you want to build a data classifier
well there are all sorts of methods for
doing that but in the Wolfram language
there's just one super function classify
that's packed with meta algorithms to
automatically figure out what to do of
course if you want you can go in and
control every detail but otherwise you
can just treat it like a black box one
of thousands of super functions in the
Wolfram language that effectively give
you the highest possible level building
blocks for programs and these building
blocks don't just contain algorithms
they've got knowledge and data too
knowledge about how to Import and Export
hundreds of formats knowledge about how
to interact with all sorts of external
apis knowledge about how to compute
properties of systems in the world and
also huge amounts of curated computable
data stored in
um
an integrate
uh
dude I wish I wish mathematically the
open source just so we could see how
this works
more from cloud and continuously updated
the same data that powers more from
alpha completely programmatically
accessible
but okay so the welcome language makes
it really easy to create really powerful
programs but what can you do with them
well it turns out that the symbolic
nature of language does something great
here too because it lets the language
Define and describe its own deployment
let's say you set up a function in the
welcome language you can run it in your
notebook session or you can just take
the symbolic code and deploy it to the
cloud you can just go to the cloud
object from the web and if you do you'll
see a web interface which automatically
runs your world from language code in
the cloud
and by the way you can set up a mobile
app to do the same kind of thing
the interface here uses CDF our
computable document format running in
the cloud and in fact you can run the
whole native notebook interface for the
Wolfram language in the cloud here it is
you can use notebooks as templates for
reports that get filled in by running
well from language code you can schedule
from language code to run on cloud
servers at particular time say sending
you mail you can take any will from
language function and set up an instant
API for it that you can call from
anywhere on the web like this asks for a
Json output of some weather data for the
user's geolocation if you have an
embedded wall from engine you can get
code to embed a call to this in lots of
languages and you can actually call the
code without even going to the web
one thing about the Wilson language is
that it's completely scalable you can
write tiny one-line programs that are
already very powerful or you can write
multi-million line programs only one
line programs that are already very
powerful or you can write
foreign
multi only online
program
what the [__] is this
I love that that's in there
bombs
like wolf from Alpha
it's so much easier
need to redo it from scratch
can you do that
what is that syntax bro
what
it's so much easier to build and
or you can write multi-million line
programs like well from our offer
it's so much easier to build and debug
some
wallet programs because at every
stage every piece is Meaningful and
depending on your style of programming
there are various Ides for the wolfen
language that take advantage of the
symbolic character of the language
you can use the Wilson language for high
performance Computing too it's got
parallel as a built right into the
language
so this is automatically starting up and
running lots of different processes
across my little heterogeneous Network
and collecting the results
you can also use the woven language on
the upcoming generation of tiny embedded
processors and for example it's included
with the OS for the Raspberry Pi Linux
computer you can use the woven language
to interact with devices in fact the
walking languages are in a unique
position with respect to devices and
with respect to real-world data in
general because in a sense it's a
language that has a model of the world
built in and in fact wdf the Wolfram
data framework encapsulates that model
and within the Wolfram language there
are lots of ways of taking unstructured
data and getting it into wdf with its
units and dates and entities and so on
made canonical
when it comes to devices the Wolfram
connected devices project all right all
right I gotta try out sage just to
dude it's literally so magical
I don't get how it works man
why is it downloading so much why do I
feel like Sage is not gonna be good
I don't want to pre-judge but like
what is going on right now
I guess I could do the like
I feel like it's I feel like it's the
second that you step out of this system
it's wrong though but I could Define
arithmetic operations
not symbolically
maybe we'll do that
this guy wants to be vice president so
[__] bad
wait no way
seriously
Mike Tyson was bullied as a teenager
that's crazy bruh
welcome to this tutorial
or online from the web route the code
Health syntax is the same regardless so
whichever way you say
a PC or return of your iMac then it will
give you four okay popped up on its own
so I typed in the two plus two I can
enter and it gave me a spat out that
response of four right so it's a very
basic example let me see how it can be
very powerful right so you can do I
don't know like 16 divided by eight or
something if you hit enter or return
it'll give you two so that's that's what
things that will look like on the
console if you download it to your
machine and uh
browser or if this is how you want to
work especially if you want to do
something quick uh but for the rest of
the tutorial just because it's so much
easier
bro why is that even there
foreign
but does it work based on pattern
matching
foreign
so are the rules stored in Rust
or the rules stored in Wolfram
dude the mystery man the [__] mystery
it's curating them to make them
automatically accessible from within the
language
okay so I've tried to give some
indication of what the Wolfram language
is about so how can you get started like
after every output there's a suggestions
bar that suggests what you might want to
do next and you can even try just giving
input in natural language and starting
to construct your programs that way and
when you've got a program you like you
can deploy it in all sorts of ways
my goal with the Wilson language has
been dude you're [__]
bro you're too
you're too good I don't even want Sage
man
hey we can delete this [__]
could we just make them big numb and
real
no but then you're using rust like
I actually think that
this ends up being string
so I think literally
dude
I think literally the only atom is
simple
all right well whatever
foreign
too much [__]
oh it's a rusty line not cross term
rust the lib hun
what
how did I do that
foreign
[Laughter]
laughs
mm-hmm
[Music]
why is Mathematica so good I don't get
it
I don't get it bruh it's so good and
it's so bad
I got your [__] a new hat
she said this hat
isn't great
[__]
yeah dog
oh what
five bro
implicit product dude that's wild
the product
so maybe yeah that's why you need the
type inference written in the language
or something
[__] Mystery Dude
okay so like
I
maybe I should just try it
try it in Rust
we're like how does Mathematica work
[Music]
there to explain things uh using this
I'm going to use
but it's not actually
a little more organically
and it's going to evaluate
what's up
we're trying to [__] figure out how
what Mathematica works because it's a
mystery language so we wrote a basic
parser
that's in a lisp format because it seems
like that's pretty much how
it's pretty much wolf Mathematica uses s
Expressions but like
the crazy thing is like
is Mathematica written in Mathematica
it's like classic bootstrapping problem
and it's like
this is not interesting to me
neither is that what is that oh wait
hold on
[Music]
foreign
okay
oh [__] that's a pretty key piece so I
was right to do RC on Expert
so we'll need to merge those two ideas
The Continuous The Continuous storage of
elements and expressions reduces memory
fragmentation and swapping however it
can lead to copying of the complete
array of pointers when a single element
an expression is modified
many optimizations based on reference
count and pre-allocation are used to
avoid such copying
yeah that's just an
foreign
dude some of this stuff is just like
magical like nobody even talks about it
holy [__]
okay yeah I mean
the Wolfram language is fundamentally an
interpreter that scans through
expressions
calling internal code pointed to
by the symbol table entries of heads
that it encounters
um
bro these are just like
bombs what the hell
we're already seven hours in I haven't
done anything today I did some symbolic
simplification but like
like you write like this little rust toy
cast that can basically do like one plus
one and you're like you know and turn it
into two and you're like wow I'm sick
but this is just so indefinitely more
powerful
what does that mean
I'm gonna make some pasta soon I'm gonna
make this good ass pasta that I got
yesterday basic arithmetic
multiplication of large integers and
Hyper Precision approximate numbers is
done using interleaved school book
karatsuba three-way tomb cook a number
theoretic transfer algorithms
machine code optimization for specific
architectures to achieved but using GMP
integer powers are found by a left right
binary decomposition algorithm
reciprocals and rational powers of
approximate numbers use Newton's method
approximate numbers
rational powers of approximate numbers
what does that even friggin mean
exact Roots start for numerical
dude these
these [__] bullet points are so
random man like who wrote this
significance arithmetic is used by
default for all arithmetic with a
for all arithmetic with approximate
numbers not equal to machine precision
so you don't actually want to try to
parse it to a float at all
but it does it I think it does
foreign
I was wondering this
what
he ignor number bro
oh that's sick
all right let's make some food let's
take a fat piss and
you know
chill out a little
so what the hell have we done today
except admire Mathematica for being one
of them
most mind-boggling things this is
essentially an interpreter
is everything a pure function in
mathematics I feel like it's not like I
feel like the these one ARG functions
that mutate the state of the global
environment
foreign
[Music]
container
should eat the whole thing then right
22 grams of protein pretty amazing
um
I want to read more of these random
notes on the internals of Wolfram system
if an explicit myth setting for Max
points is given an integrated then uses
causing
soda
it's written by LR petzold the the god
of
daes too
you know the end function is mad
complicated
it dude
it's essentially an interpreter okay so
I wanna
fundamentally
okay so I get I think we're gonna
probably have to do the approach
where we have this [__] massive
symbol table
and then yeah it's an interpreter it's
an interpreter that's what it is
that's not such a crazy thing
oh bro no one cleaned this Pan Man
[Music]
foreign
okay this pasta is apparently super easy
to [__] overcook
it says four minutes
but I think I'm gonna do it for like
three minutes but even three minutes
I'll probably do it for two minutes
two and a half
I wish I was
news
[Music]
foreign
Okay Google
set a timer for three minutes
this is yes yes yes
wait is this is a
is that how you're supposed to do that
[Music]
come on
got your name [__] show my [__] dick
yeah you know I got
um
yeah dog
I forgot
the strainer bro the strainer
what's up
[Music]
I cooked the pasta
very nice
chewable
got no action bruh
don't hate though
[__] slippery know it
got your main [__] oh my God
cut your main bit in your side you don't
mind it I don't mind it
[Music]
all right we're gonna be doing pesto a
review
hold on hold on
hold on what am I doing
wait why did I just do that
all right
oh
thank you
I have no time I I have no qualms with
the town fryer
because he'd been frying
and crying
what is a fryer
my guess is that this is gonna be
a pretty good pesto
but we shall see
see how many calories you have
it's got like a thousand calories in
this thing
it's just all oil
pretty good
this pasta though it's so easy to make
soft
um
I should have done for two minutes and
30 seconds
foreign
you can really feel the walnuts
[Music]
this has a good amount of acidity
could say the artist solo one is
probably the best
deal
I don't know if I like the walnuts
um
not yours bro
get away
I'm just always shocked that this stuff
has literally a thousand calories in it
like there's no way I should be allowed
to use this much of it
but it's like
the only way to make it
the right level flavorful
it's only if it's in args what if you do
this
of a defined symbol
so it's only
um
blank what the hell is blank what the
hell is set delayed
um
Okay Google
play ten dollars
Play the song ten dollars
Google really be
so stupid
Okay Google
Play the song ten dollars
Google Assistant
it just doesn't work oh wait
no yeah it just didn't work
Okay Google
Play the song ten dollars
got it
took it five times it's not even that
the speech was wrong it's just that the
program just doesn't run it just doesn't
actually do the action but it
transcribes it correctly
oh never mind it didn't even do it
my volume is on guys
foreign
[Music]
dude I don't like that at all
oh this is just so they have a rule
this but this must be in the parser
this is a symbol it's it's parsed as a
symbol and there's a rule
that just rewrites that symbol to blank
which is a list with no arguments
or a list with one argument which is
blank
all right let's do something worthwhile
like reading this
thank you
foreign
X be subscripted with an alpha too
[__] you
but someone products are two polynomials
what about the one color in your mail
oh yeah something divides itself that's
fine
one could show that under additional
multiplication system
foreign
hmm
when n equals 1 it is well known that a
non-zero polynomial
and KX of degree M has at most
M distinct roots
ha
I don't really get that
ah I get it
if the
Bugs Bunny
is
here
foreign
wait so they're just they're just like
relying on the Assumption of the this
proof
thank you
foreign
what
uh
uh polynomial is finite so if it has an
infinite then it must be zero because
or the polynomial is infinite
so since K is infinite and F is
has a finite number of monomials
right finite degree okay
that's interesting
foreign
pop
but
um
nice to be back in the chair
what the heck is going on
note that the statement in proposition
five
let K be an infinite field and f and g
both polynomials in
this should be easy because
uh
but isn't the number one in
foreign
no my ball
oh GPT is gonna be so nice to work
through exercises actually
what
oh
what did it ask me to do
um
foreign
about that
proposition 5 was the proof
where f
is the zero
function
if and only if it equals zero for all
inputs
foreign
oh really
oh yeah
[Music]
can we get ten dollars playing
where are you
[Music]
homies
they don't like cause I don't know
[Music]
give me
again
[Music]
bro love Elon shout out to Elan
I mean okay so hold on I need a new
paper
thank you
foreign
wait what
hmm
foreign
find a non-zero polynomial and F2 XYZ
which banishes at every point
try to find one involving all three
variables
um
foreign
the coefficients of a polynomial have to
be in K as well right
foreign
to find the range of the coefficients
64.
oh
sheesh
foreign
wait
okay fine so uh
foreign
have to do with it
isn't this
um
that's interesting
hmm
I don't know how to solve this problem
foreign
[Music]
of course this year if they're all one
if one of them is one
well if any of them are zero then this
is zero
and one of the other ones is Ah that's
smart man
it's clever
I did not get that find a nunzero
polynomial
hmm
doesn't it depend on whether or not
let me sit here and think about it
okay thank you
yeah I do
okay
oh that's from a while ago
yesterday
yeah
I mean I don't think anything will
happen I don't think
really
okay
good
wait
wait hold on X Plus y
what I feel like that fails
um
hmm
foreign
so you make the degree one greater than
is that the idea
or wait no that's not true no it's still
three okay fine so let me try that one
[Music]
um
yeah x squared y plus y squared x
plus x squared Z
plus y squared Z
Plus
x z squared
plus y z squared
cool
Governor got the icy bro
wow
what was the general form
dude that's a freaking interesting
expression man
is there a way to splat
it up
that's super cool
I guess I'm Bo I'm a stink bro he stinks
eat
foreign
let's see why does this work that's a
that's a beautiful expression
the sum from one to n or from J equals
one to n of x j squared
Plus
this sum where I is not equal to J to of
x i
why does that work why does the square
matter
but you could just get x y
plus Y X Plus XZ plus y z plus X
oh
no yeah you do need
you need
the powers
otherwise
you get
coefficients
not in
k
F2 nice okay cool
that makes sense
let me script skip those two
beep
la la la la
should I go through the grunt work at
doing this one guys who knows
[Music]
this one is probably a really good one
to do
the issue I think is that
the coefficients can be in C
foreign
graphs of polynomial functions are
affine variety
that I don't really understand is zero
in the
I don't think so
um
foreign
[Music]
thank you
ready
recently
okay
peace I'm gonna go hike and go
what is this a nine hour day it's not
amazing what do we do today guys let's
read cap
we uh
we we did some simplification rules in
the
cast to repo
us kind of whatever honestly
um
and then we just like looked at
Mathematica a bunch we installed it
which was like whatever
and now we're working on
algebra problems for fun
and I think I'm gonna continue with
doing algebra because
maybe I'll Implement grobner basis
seems like a good algorithm to
understand
please